# Contribution Guide
This guide specifies the naming conventions used to contribute to this project.

## Commits
### Work on issues
#### Commit Titles
When commiting work, depending on the nature of the work, commit titles should have the following format:
<br>
`BACKEND <Short descriptive title>`
<br><br>
`FRONTEND <Short descriptive title>` 
<br><br>
`BACKEND TESTING <Short descriptive title>` 
<br><br>
`FRONTEND TESTING <Short descriptive title>` 
<br><br>
`TECHNICAL <Short descriptive title>` 
<br><br>

#### Commit Body
If the commit warrants more details than a short descriptive title, a body should be created with a bullet point formatted list of the work items included in the commit.
<br><br>


#Example
<br>
[#3] Add UML diagram for database classes


## Pull Requests
Names of PRs should observe the following conventions.
### PR Titles related to Issues in a Sprint
The formatting for the title can be the autogenerated one.
<br><br>
If a PR is linked with more than one issue, the format of the merge commit should be:<br>
`[#<issue-1-number>, #<issue-2-number>, ..., #<issue-N-number>]`
### PR Titles Related to Issue NOT in a Sprint
If a PR is linked with issues NOT related to tasks in a Sprint, the following convention should be observed:<br>
`[#<issue-1-number>, #<issue-2-number>, ..., #<issue-N-number>`
### PR Merge Commits
Merge commits for PRs should include the following in the comment section if and only if the demo is already recorded and uploaded to the relevant issues:<br>
`Resolves #<issue-1-number>, #<issue-2-number>, ..., <issue-N-number>`<br>
This line will automatically cause the relevant issues to be closed. Make sure to add it only if the demo is added to the issue or if no demo is applicable(technical tasks, minor bugs, documentation, etc.) <br> 
Merge commits for PRs regarding issues for which the demo has not been recorded yet must follow the following format:<br>
` Worked on #<issue-1-number>, #<issue-2-number>, ..., <issue-N-number>`<br>

## Branches
### Work on Sprint Tasks
Branches associated with issues that represent tasks in the Sprint Backlog are to be named as follows:
<br>
`<task-id>/<descriptive-title>[/<issue-number>]`
<br><br>
Where /<issue-number> is optional.
<br><br>
For example:<br>
Assume issue #12 was created for task with id **EG-1-3: A Dummy Issue For Illustration**, then the corresponding branch will be named as follows:
<br>
`eg-1-3/dummy-issue-for-illustration/12` (*Notice the letters are all small caps.*)
### Work on other issues
Branches associated with issues that do NOT represent tasks in the Sprint should be named as follows:
<br>
`<descriptive-title>/<issue-number>`
<br><br>
Where `<descriptive-title>` should be clear, concise, and representative of the goals associated with the issue.
<br><br>
For example:<br>
Assume issue #30 is related to documentation work where a UML diagram is to be added. A possible branch name could be:<br>
`doc/add-uml-diagram/30` (*Notice how 'doc/' categorizes the type of work being done.*)
### Work not related to issues
Branches should ALWAYS be associated with an issue!